SPEAKER_00: Think of it as a way of syncing your living space with that growing light outside. So again, refer you back to our spring cleaning episode last week.

SPEAKER_01: So the third way to celebrate the spring equinox with Feng Shui is to invite a plant into your home to invite growth. And you can use the Feng Shui Bagua Mandala as a guide. The equinox is a powerful time to plant seeds literally or symbolically.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, spring energy is connected with growth, new beginnings, and creativity. And in Feng Shui, we believe that this season is also connected to wood energy or wood qi. So those descriptors of growth, new beginnings, flexibility, and kindness are all things that are around wood qi. The direction of wood qi is upward moving. It is determined. It is full of life. It is vitality. And it mimics it, right? You learn this by watching a sprout pushing through the soil.

SPEAKER_01: So you might want to place a fresh green plant, a living green houseplant in your home. Or if you have the space, you can start a garden. You can begin a new gardening project or you just start a new project. But planting something like a green plant is really connected to the wood element. And most people find that accessible and can wrap their head around that. And when you do this, set your intentions that you would like to grow something over the coming months. And invite this energy of the spring equinox to support these bold first steps you will make.

SPEAKER_00: And then finally, a way that you can take this to the next level is by integrating this whole idea with the Bagua. You can place a new plant in the Zhen or growth area, also referred to as family. This area of the Bagua, if you are standing in the front door of your home and you have a perfectly square home, would be the left wall, the side of the left wall of your home, dead center. And if you are confused, you can either get a copy of our book and we will walk you through exactly how to do that, or if you check the show notes, we will have the e-kit that you could use to discover more about the Bagua. But if you found the Zhen growth area, you can find a new plant. So spend some time to go and get that plant and place it in that area, which represents this time of year. It represents new beginnings. It represents growth, and it represents springtime.

SPEAKER_01: And our fourth and final Feng Shui invitation to celebrate the spring equinox is to offer thanks. Finally, celebrate with thanks and gratitude. For thousands of years, human civilizations around the world held seasonal festivals at this time at the equinox. And these festivals have survived, and are also an expression of how we as humans have made it through the winter and made it through that cold time of maybe hibernation, of rest, of quiet, and offers the promise of abundance, of growth, and new beginnings. So this is a lovely moment to offer sincere gratitude and thanks to your home for its shelter and its warmth, and to acknowledge your own inner growth during these quieter months. Because even though you can't see it in nature during the winter, you don't see things growing on the surface, but underneath there is a lot happening. There is a lot of activity. And resting is its own form of growth, not the same way that we are conditioned to think of growth. So as the light returns and the days stretch longer, the spring equinox invites you to step forward with refreshed, hopeful energy to accommodate whatever comes next. So Lauren, I hope all of you will be able to celebrate the equinox with some thoughtful intention. And I know we are both looking forward to the spring weather, right, Lauren?

SPEAKER_00: Yes, it has been a long, very snowy winter.

SPEAKER_01: Yes, yes it has been. So thank you so much for listening to the Holistic Spaces podcast. You can tune in every Monday for a new episode. If you like our podcast, please share it with others. You can subscribe. You can leave a review. You can always join our mailing list, which is the best way to keep up on all of the events and activities that we have available. It is a weekly newsletter and it goes into your inbox. Sign up by visiting mindfuldesignschool.com/join. And you can also check out our offerings at mindfuldesignschool.com. Thank you so much for listening and we will see you next week.