SPEAKER_00: Think of it as a way of sinking your living space with that growing light outside. So again, refer you back to our spring cleaning episode last week.

SPEAKER_01: So the third way to celebrate spring equinox with Fengxue is to invite a plant into your home to invite growth. And you can use the Fengxue Baguang Mandala as a guide. The equinox is a powerful time to plant seeds literally or symbolically.

SPEAKER_00: Yeah, spring energy is connected with growth, new beginnings and creativity. And in Fengxue, we believe that this season is also connected to what energy or wood she. So those descriptors of growth, new beginnings, flexibility, kindness. Those are all things that are around wood she. The direction of wood she is upward moving. It's determined. It is full of life. It's vitality. And it mimics, right? It gets it you learn this by watching a sprout pushing through the soil.

SPEAKER_01: So you might want to place a fresh green plant, a living green house plant in your home. Or if you have the space, you can start a garden. You can begin a new gardening project or you just start a new project. But planting something like a green plant is really connected to the wood element. And most people find that accessible and can wrap their head around that. And when you do this, set your intentions that you'd like to grow something over the coming months. And invite this energy of the spring equinoxue to support these bold first steps you'll make.

SPEAKER_00: And then finally a way that you can take this to the next level is by integrating this whole idea with the Baguah. And you can place a new plant in June or growth area. Also referred to as family. This area of the Baguah. If you are standing in the front door of your home and you have a perfectly square home. It would be the left wall, the side of the left wall of your home dead center. And if you are confused, you can either get a copy of our book and we will walk you through exactly how to do that. Or if you check the show notes, we will have the ekit that you could use to discover more about the Baguah. But if you found June growth area, and you can find a new plant. So spend some time to go and get that plant and place it in that area, which represents this time of year. It represents new beginnings. It represents growth and it represents springtime.

SPEAKER_01: And our fourth and final function invitation to celebrate spring equinox is to offer thanks. Finally celebrate with thanks and gratitude for thousands of years. Human civilizations around the world held seasonal festivals at this time at the equinox. And these festivals have survived. And also are an expression of how we as humans have made it through the winter and made it through that cold time of maybe hibernation of rest of quiet. And offers the promise of abundance of growth and new beginnings. So this is a lovely moment to offer since you're gratitude and thanks to your home for its shelter, its warmth. And to acknowledge your own inner growth during these quieter months. Because even though you can't see in nature during the winter, you don't see things growing on the surface, but underneath there's a lot happening. There's a lot of activity. And resting is its own form of growth, not the same way that we're conditioned to think of growth. So as the light returns and the days stretch longer, the spring equinox invites you to step forward with refreshed hopeful energy, to accommodate whatever comes next. So Lauren, I hope all of you will be able to celebrate the equinox with some thoughtful intention. And I know we're both looking forward to the spring weather right Lauren.

SPEAKER_00: Yes, it's been a long very snowy winter.

SPEAKER_01: Yes, yes it has been. So thank you so much for listening to the holistic spaces podcast. You can tune in every Monday for a new episode. If you like our podcast, please share it with others. You can subscribe. You can leave a review. You can always join our mailing list, which is the best way to keep up on all of the events and activities that we have available. It's a weekly newsletter and it goes into your inbox. Sign up by visiting mindfuldesignschool.com. So that's join. And you can also check out our offerings at mindfuldesignschool.com. Thank you so much for listening and we'll see you next week.