SPEAKER 00: You're listening to the Holistic Spaces Podcast brought to you by Mindful Design Feng Shui School, Episode 373: Celebrate Spring Equinox. Welcome to episode 373 of the Holistic Spaces Podcast, where we hope to inspire, educate, and empower you to create your own holistic spaces that nurture and resonate with you. Laura Morris and Angie Chow are the founders of the Mindful Design Feng Shui School and authors of Mindful Living: A Guide to the Everyday Magic of Feng Shui. We teach feng shui online at mindfuldesignschool.com. You can sign up for our newsletter for free workshops, free content, and events that are available only to our newsletter subscribers. You can join our mailing list by visiting mindfuldesignschool.com/join or scroll down in your show notes. We have a few things right now in the queue that are available. One is our feng shui and plants free mini-course. It's called Harmonize Your Home with Feng Shui and Plants, and we'll add a link to that in the show notes. We also will now have, every few weeks, a community gathering for our Mindful Design School communities. Those events will be shared on our newsletter. That's the best way to find out about them, and it's a really great way to connect with other like-minded people and to see Laura and me live on Zoom sometime. Just sign up for the newsletter list, and you'll get notified on those events. We look forward to seeing you there. This week's episode, we are celebrating the spring equinox, which is coming very soon. This year it falls on March 20th, and it sometimes falls somewhere between March 19th and 21st depending on the year, and depending on your time zone, it's also slightly different. This marks a moment when the sun crosses the celestial equator and the Northern Hemisphere begins to tilt more directly towards light. In the Southern Hemisphere, it will be the fall equinox, but it's still the same idea that it is equal day and equal night at this time. Then in the Northern Hemisphere, the days grow longer and brighter, while in the Southern Hemisphere, it's the opposite; the days grow shorter and darker.

SPEAKER 01: Yes, and historically, ancient civilizations have used tracking the sun's movements as a way to mark time, to plant crops, and to understand predictable markers that they can plan around. They use it to celebrate. This particular one, often called the vernal or spring equinox, vernal because of the green, is really a celebration of the return to not only sunlight but growth and new beginnings. It is one of the most important turning points of the year, especially in climates where we have long, dark winters. Angie, just before we get into it, let's talk a little bit about different ways that we can think about the vernal or the spring equinox. We have three different ways to honor it.

SPEAKER 00: Yes, we'll go over these three different ways, and hopefully you'll be inspired to incorporate or contemplate one or more of them. The first one is to honor this balance of yin and yang, celebrating that equilibrium, the equal day and equal night, which is very rare in our lives that we have something so balanced. Often, a lot of people think about feng shui as a way of balancing things. Actually, the trick is that it is true; we seek to balance elements, and we seek to balance yin and yang. But there is also an acknowledgement that this is a seesaw. You find that balance, but it's always moving. You look for balance, yet there is never exactly balance; it's a constant motion and a flow. One beautiful way to celebrate this time of year, the equinox, is to honor this balance. Because day and night are equal, this seasonal moment symbolizes harmony with light and dark. We can think about other ways that yin and yang are expressed besides light and dark. For instance, action and rest, outward movement, inner reflection, things that are happening inside of us, and things that are happening outside of us. Those are just a few examples. There is a huge list, going on and on, such as your masculine side and your feminine side. In many ancient cultures, they built temples and monuments aligned to this powerful time of year, this equinox. This demonstrates to us how meaningful this balance was and how rare it is. It only comes twice a year, and this was really honored in our early human civilizations. You can find your own way of doing this in our modern world. It can be really simple. You can mark down the day in your calendar and take time to observe the sunrise or the sunset, to see this equilibrium in your natural world and connect with the environment around you. You could also add in something such as lighting a candle in the morning or in the evening. Or it could be as simple as pausing to reflect on where you could invite more equilibrium, more equanimity, and more balance into your life. What are the ways that you can bring in more harmony with rest and action, for instance? This is a big theme as we are transitioning away from winter into the spring energy, the yang energy, moving away from rest towards more movement.

SPEAKER 01: Yes, it's a real relief for many people once you cross over that threshold and get into more light. The next way that you can celebrate is by spending some time spring cleaning. We obviously did an entire episode on this, so I am going to just touch on it, but another joyful tradition tied to the spring equinox is spring cleaning. Across cultures, this time of year has been associated with cleansing and renewal. With this increased daylight, we naturally feel more energized and are ready to reset our spaces. You get this feeling where you can't help yourself. In feng shui, this shift reflects this rising yang energy, this rising yang chi, this bright, active, and expansive energy. A few of the ways that you can do this, and again I highly recommend you listen to our episode from last week, is opening your windows with intention. You can spend some time picking a spot of your home that needs to be cleared. Clear the clutter around the front door. The front door is often a really great place to do that, especially if you live in a spot where you're experiencing winter and there is clothing that you may not need anymore but still haven't put away. Wipe down surfaces and clean your stove. We walk you through how to do that in last week's episode. You could maybe even create your own citrus or orange cleanser, such as a vinegar and orange peel cleanser that is non-toxic. It's a way to honor that yang chi because oranges are very yang, and they have this prosperity and vivacious energy. You can intentionally clean your home with that and just overall let your house breathe.